###Digital Humanities Project Review: [Serendip-O-Matic](http://serendip-o-matic.com)
####By Nan Denette

####Introduction

Serendip-o-matic.com is designed to be a tool for research. The homepage prompts the user to copy and paste a section of academic text, and the site then scans the text for key terms, identifying them as “research interests”. The site then generates links to resources relevant to the user’s “research interests”, creating a collection of avenues for the user to follow. Sources of these expanded research avenues are cited as the Digital Public Library of America, Europeana, and Flikr. As an example, I used the default article that the website suggests, which is the Wikipedia entry on hippopotamuses. When entered, the site brings up a list of terms related to “hippopotamus” including “Africa, amphibious, terrestrial” among others. Additionally, there are scholarly articles about different types of hippopotamuses, as well as images and external links. 

I also tested the website with a topic of my own selection. I entered an essay I had written about representations of the Buddha in early Buddhist iconography. I found this entry to be something of a success, as many “research interests” were generated. I was given a large number of useful and relevant images and external links, although the specific “research interests” the site identified were not strictly words related to the thesis of the paper. However, these words were relevant to the topic and certainly were worth exploring had I needed to conduct further research on the topic. Overall, I would consider my experience with this site to be a success. 

####Concept & Content

In terms of the criteria identified by our class for concept and content, I believe that the website had a cohesive thesis/goal, which is to provide users with tools for further research based on a written text—be it an existing article on the topic, or an essay that needs to be expanded upon. Additionally, I would argue that this project did make use of the existing data it worked with. It seems as though the external reference sources the site uses were effectively searched for terms the site identified as relevant to the text it was analyzing. However, I believe that a significant improvement to this site would be adding further external sources, or somehow connecting the site to a university’s library catalogue and/or academic databases, so as to expand the amount of relevant information it could collect for a researcher. Finally, the project used outside sources and did cite them properly and appropriately. On each results page, the website identifies the sources used clearly beneath the “research interests” section. The only identifiable connections to other digital humanities projects relevant here would be the sources the site links to for external research avenues. 

####Design & Technique

For design and technique, I believe the site is functional and effective. The design and form of the site do support its function, and as a user I found no obvious errors or irregularities. I feel as though the relevant buttons and text fields were located in logical places within the page. The site has a very simple and straightforward design, which makes sense as the site has a very specific purpose and function. An improvement I would suggest would be to include a settings menu in which a user could specify which external sites they want the search engine to include or exclude—for example, if they were not looking for images, they could remove Flikr.com from the search menu. There is an obvious advantage to the digital format of the project, which is the quick and easy ability of the site to cross-reference other sources, and to quickly process the text and pick up key words. Overall, the design is user-friendly, practical and simple. 

####Collaboration & Documentation

From the [About](http://serendip-o-matic.com/about/) page of the site, it seems as though the project’s team did document their research and creative process. There are headings to sections explaining “What It Is” and “How We Built It” which include links to sources of funding as well as specifics about the process of software development that was implemented. Additionally, there is evidence of collaboration and feedback, as the list of team members specifically states that the creators are a team of scholars, students, librarians, and museum professionals. This variety of backgrounds ensures that multiple perspectives were considered when building this platform, so that it would be useful to a variety of people. The only available documentation of future plans that the site provides is a link to their GitHub repository—however, this repository hasn’t been updated in the last three years. Other than this category, the site has acceptable evidence of collaboration and documentation. 

####Conclusion

Overall, I believe that serendip-o-matic is a useful digital humanities project, that provides users with relevant and efficient links to external research resources. It fulfills most requirements of a good digital humanities project based on the criteria we established as a class, and has relevant content, design, and evidence of collaboration. 
